The camera traps have revolutionized the image and video capture in ecology and are often used to monitor and record women’s presence. Innovations such as computational photography, AI-driven enhancements, and machine learning algorithms are revolutionizing the way images are processed, allowing for real-time adjustments and superior outcomes. Today AI-generated  images, often referred to as deep fakes, is a growing concern, particularly for women. However, we use and misuse this blessing to face swap using deepfake. Deepfake is an emerging subdomain of artificial intelligence technology in which one person’s face is overlaid over another person’s face, which is very prominent across social media. Deepfake technology is increasingly misused to create explicit images and videos without consent, disproportionately targeting women. This violation of privacy leads to harassment, exploitation, reputational damage, and severe psychological impacts, including anxiety, stress, and a sense of powerlessness.

This paper provides object detection or classification between AI fake and Camera images using pre-trained models and for visualizing AI images. It is based on the Supervised Machine Learning Techniques. The dataset for this work was obtained from completely google. The MobileNet models are used for image classification. We apply this model on labeled data and obtaining result for precision, recall, F-Score, Accuracy 0.95,0.95,0.95,0.95 respectively. We also compare Model performance of Mobilenet with inceptionV3 and AlexNet for image classification. The findings offer practical applications for employing transfer learning techniques, optimizing and deploying models to edge devices, and visualizing models in ecological research.
